In the last video,
we worked through an example of using a
computation graph to compute a function J.
Now, let's take a clean diversion
of that computation graph.
And show how you can use it to figure
out derivative calculations for
that function J.
So here's a computation graph.
Let's say you want to compute
the derivative of J with respect to v.
So what is that?
Well, this says,
if we were to take this value of v and
change it a little bit,
how would the value of J change?
Well, J is defined as 3 times v.
And right now, v = 11.
So if we're to bump up v
by a little bit to 11.001,
then J, which is 3v, so currently 33,
will get bumped up to 33.003.
So here, we've increased v by 0.001.
And the net result of that is
that J goes out 3 times as much.
So the derivative of J with
respect to v is equal to 3.
Because the increase in J is
3 times the increase in v.
And in fact,
this is very analogous to the example
we had in the previous video,
where we had f(a) = 3a.
And so we then derived that df/da,
which with slightly simplified,
a slightly sloppy notation,
you can write as df/da = 3.
So instead, here we have J = 3v,
and so dJ/dv = 3.
With here, J playing the role of f, and
v playing the role of a in this previous
example that we had from an earlier video.
So indeed, terminology of backpropagation,
what we're seeing
is that if you want to compute the
derivative of this final output variable,
which usually is a variable
you care most about,
with respect to v, then we've
done one step of backpropagation.
So we call it one step
backwards in this graph.
Now let's look at another example.
What is dJ/da?
In other words, if we bump up the value of
a, how does that affect the value of J?
Well, let's go through the example,
where now a = 5.
So let's bump it up to 5.001.
The net impact of that is that v, which
was a + u, so that was previously 11.
This would get increased to 11.001.
And then we've already seen as above that
J now gets bumped up to 33.003.
So what we're seeing is that if you
increase a by 0.001, J increases by 0.003.
And by increase a, I mean,
you have to take this value of 5 and
just plug in a new value.
Then the change to a will propagate to
the right of the computation graph so
that J ends up being 33.003.
And so the increase to J is
3 times the increase to a.
So that means this
derivative is equal to 3.
And one way to break this down
is to say that if you change a,
then that will change v.
And through changing v,
that would change J.
And so the net change to the value
of J when you bump up the value,
when you nudge the value of
a up a little bit, is that,
First, by changing a,
you end up increasing v.
Well, how much does v increase?
It is increased by an amount
that's determined by dv/da.
And then the change in v will cause
the value of J to also increase.
So in calculus, this is actually called
the chain rule that if a affects v,
affects J,
then the amounts that J changes when you
nudge a is the product of
how much v changes when you
nudge a times how much J
changes when you nudge v.
So in calculus, again,
this is called the chain rule.
And what we saw from this calculation
is that if you increase a by 0.001,
v changes by the same amount.
So dv/da = 1.
So in fact, if you plug in what
we have wrapped up previously,
dv/dJ = 3 and dv/da = 1.
So the product of these 3 times 1,
that actually gives you
the correct value that dJ/da = 3.
So this little illustration shows
hows by having computed dJ/dv,
that is,
derivative with respect to this variable,
it can then help you to compute dJ/da.
And so that's another step of
this backward calculation.
I just want to introduce one
more new notational convention.
Which is that when you're witting
codes to implement backpropagation,
there will usually be some final output
variable that you really care about.
So a final output variable that you really
care about or that you want to optimize.
And in this case,
this final output variable is J.
It's really the last node
in your computation graph.
And so a lot of computations will be
trying to compute the derivative of that
final output variable.
So d of this final output variable
with respect to some other variable.
Then we just call that dvar.
So a lot of the computations you have will
be to compute the derivative of the final
output variable, J in this case,
with various intermediate variables,
such as a, b, c, u or v.
And when you implement this in software,
what do you call this variable name?
One thing you could do is in Python,
you could give us a very long variable
name like dFinalOurputVar/dvar.
But that's a very long variable name.
You could call this, I guess, dJdvar.
But because you're always taking
derivatives with respect to dJ, with
respect to this final output variable,
I'm going to introduce a new notation.
Where, in code, when you're computing
this thing in the code you write,
we're just going to use the variable name
dvar in order to represent that quantity.
So dvar in a code you write will
represent the derivative of
the final output variable
you care about such as J.
Well, sometimes, the last l with respect
to the various intermediate quantities
you're computing in your code.
So this thing here in your code,
you use dv to denote this value.
So dv would be equal to 3.
And your code, you represent this as da,
which is we also figured
out to be equal to 3.
So we've done backpropagation partially
through this computation graph.
Let's go through the rest of
this example on the next slide.
So let's go to a cleaned up
copy of the computation graph.
And just to recap, what we've done so
far is go backward here and
figured out that dv = 3.
And again, the definition of dv,
that's just a variable name,
where the code is really dJ/dv.
We've figured out that da = 3.
And again, da is the variable name in your
code and that's really the value dJ/da.
And we hand wave how we've gone
backwards on these two edges like so.
Now let's keep computing derivatives.
Now let's look at the value u.
So what is dJ/du?
Well, through a similar calculation
as what we did before and
then we start off with u = 6.
If you bump up u to 6.001, then v,
which is previously 11, goes up to 11.001.
And so J goes from 33 to 33.003.
And so the increase in J is 3x,
so this is equal.
And the analysis for u is very
similar to the analysis we did for a.
This is actually computed
as dJ/dv times dv/du,
where this we had already
figured out was 3.
And this turns out to be equal to 1.
So we've gone up one more
step of backpropagation.
We end up computing that
du is also equal to 3.
And du is, of course, just this dJ/du.
Now we just step through
one last example in detail.
So what is dJ/db?
So here, imagine if you are allowed
to change the value of b.
And you want to tweak b a little
bit in order to minimize or
maximize the value of J.
So what is the derivative or
what's the slope of this function J when
you change the value of b a little bit?
It turns out that using the chain rule for
calculus,
this can be written as
the product of two things.
This dJ/du times du/db.
And the reasoning is if
you change b a little bit,
so b = 3 to, say, 3.001.
The way that it will affect
J is it will first affect u.
So how much does it affect u?
Well, u is defined as b times c.
So this will go from 6,
when b = 3, to now 6.002
because c = 2 in our example here.
And so this tells us that du/db = 2.
Because when you bump up b by 0.001,
u increases twice as much.
So du/db, this is equal to 2.
And now, we know that u has gone
up twice as much as b has gone up.
Well, what is dJ/du?
We've already figured out
that this is equal to 3.
And so by multiplying these two out,
we find that dJ/db = 6.
And again, here's the reasoning for
the second part of the argument.
Which is we want to know when u goes
up by 0.002, how does that affect J?
The fact that dJ/du = 3,
that tells us that when
u goes up by 0.002,
J goes up 3 times as much.
So J should go up by 0.006.
So this comes from
the fact that dJ/du = 3.
And if you check the math in detail,
you will find that if b becomes 3.001,
then u becomes 6.002, v becomes 11.002.
So that's a + u, so that's 5 + u.
And then J, which is equal to 3 times v,
that ends up being equal to 33.006.
And so that's how you get that dJ/db = 6.
And to fill that in, this is if we
go backwards, so this is db = 6.
And db really is the Python
code variable name for dJ/db.
And I won't go through the last
example in great detail.
But it turns out that if
you also compute out dJ,
this turns out to be dJ/du times du.
And this turns out to be 9,
this turns out to be 3 times 3.
I won't go through that example in detail.
So through this last step, it is
possible to derive that dc is equal to.
So the key takeaway from this video,
from this example, is that when computing
derivatives and computing all of these
derivatives, the most efficient way to do
so is through a right to left computation
following the direction of the red arrows.
And in particular, we'll first compute
the derivative with respect to v.
And then that becomes useful for
computing the derivative with respect to
a and the derivative with respect to u.
And then the derivative with respect to u,
for
example, this term over here and
this term over here.
Those in turn become useful for computing
the derivative with respect to b and
the derivative with respect to c.
So that was the computation graph and
how does a forward or left to right
calculation to compute the cost function
such as J that you might want to optimize.
And a backwards or a right to left
calculation to compute derivatives.
If you're not familiar with calculus or
the chain rule,
I know some of those details, but
they've gone by really quickly.
But if you didn't follow all the details,
don't worry about it.
In the next video,
we'll go over this again in
the context of logistic regression.
And show you exactly what you need to do
in order to implement the computations you
need to compute the derivatives
of the logistic regression model.